# cars.com-sentiment analysis

This project is initially one of the three mini projects of Advance Business Analysis using R course, and the analysis object of this project is Toyota Camry (2012-2017). 
In this project, I created a user interface using shiny App to visualize my outcome. [server.R](https://github.com/Lanwei02/NLP-cars.com/blob/master/server.R) and [ui.R](https://github.com/Lanwei02/NLP-cars.com/blob/master/ui.R) are files of the Shiny App. The Shiny App allows users to give the car's Make, Model and Year that they would like to analyze. Then, the Shiny App would automatically download the rate and review, calculate the average star rate score and sentiment score by adding the positive & negative score of the each words in the each reviews, count the TF-IDF score for four features which are most concerned by customers(Service, Price, Handling, Interior), and build a model based on the calculated sentiment score to predict the star.

However, since the available Carmy user reviews are too less for doing sentiment analysis, the accuracy of the prediction model is very low. So I wanted to improve this project by expanding the review data range from Toyota Camry to several popular sedans in the US car market and tried different text vectorized methods and machine learning algorithms to build a better sentiment classifier and get more insights from the review data.

I wrote a [new crawler](https://github.com/Lanwei02/cars.com-sentiment-analysis/blob/master/car_crawler.ipynb) with python which could scrap the star, review, review date and review area of the selected car (make, model and year). The package I used in this file is beautifulsoup. I also updated the [crawler written by R](https://github.com/Lanwei02/cars.com-sentiment-analysis/blob/master/CARS_CRAWLER.R) since there are some changes to the website which made the original crawler does not work well.
